adds tail calls blog (#72)
trifectatechfoundation/trifectatech-website: content/blog/Tail calls project goal.md

+++
title = "Rust should have stable tail calls"
slug = "tail-calls-project-goal"
authors = ["Folkert de Vries"]
date = "2026-04-14"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["state machines"] 

+++

Tail calls in rust have been talked about for a long time, but especially from the outside it looks like very little progress has been made. Let's change that!

<!-- more -->

> [Waffle](https://github.com/WaffleLapkin) and I have submitted a project goal to move explicit tail calls forward in 2026. We're not quite aiming for stabilization this year, but lining things up to hopefully stabilize in 2027.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Waffle](https://github.com/WaffleLapkin) and I have submitted a [project goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2026/tail-call-loop-match.html) to move explicit tail calls forward in 2026. We're not quite aiming for stabilization this year, but lining things up to hopefully stabilize in 2027.
```

> This project goal needs funding. If guaranteed tail calls or the projects that use them are valuable to you or your team, get in touch!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project goal needs funding. If guaranteed tail calls or the projects that use them are valuable to you or your team, [get in touch!](/support)
```

not sure that this link works here, so we should test that.

Next we'd like to work on `rustc` itself being able to codegen direct tail calls: when the callee is known, `rustc` can transform the call into a direct jump (effectively this inlines the call). This approach resolves some of the portability concerns, but  does not support the indirect call + jump table pattern, and hence does not really support serious use of guaranteed tail calls.

Finally there is the more experimental work to add computed `goto`-like functionality to `#[loop_match]`, and to work on a custom `extern "tail"` calling convention that uses LLVM `tailcc` to loosen the same-signature restriction.

## Conclusion

We believe that this work is essential for Rust to continue to deliver on the promise of being a modern systems programming language. That claim means that it must be possible to write extremely efficient programs like parsers (e.g. protobuf) and interpreters (e.g. wasm, python) in Rust without compromising on performance.

> As I've mentioned, [Waffle](https://github.com/WaffleLapkin) and I have submitted a project goal to this end, planning to do most of the work in 2026 and aiming for stabilization in 2027, and this effort needs funding. If guaranteed tail calls or the projects that use them are valuable to you or your team, [get in touch](mailto:contact@trifectatech.org)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further this work, [Waffle](https://github.com/WaffleLapkin) and I have submitted a [project goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2026/tail-call-loop-match.html), planning to do most of the work in 2026 and aiming for stabilization in 2027. This effort needs funding, so if guaranteed tail calls or the projects that use them are valuable to you or your team, [get in touch](/support)!
```

again we should check that the link works.
